When we select Hindi or English Language


English Instructions

1- Hover the instuments with the help of mouse cursor for getting familier with the instruments used in the experiment and click on the next button to start the experiment.




------------------step1---------------
2- click on the Hard Water Sample.
    a- Beaker pours 100ml of Hard Water into the Mesuring Cylinder.
3- click on the Mesuring Cylinder.
    a- Mesuring cylinder will pour 100 ml of Hard Water Sample into the Empty Conical Flask.
4-click on the dropper
    a- Dropper will get few drops of buffer solution from the buffer solution beaker and pour it into the concial flask.
 5- again click on the second dropper which will get few drops of Eriochrome Black T from the EBT beaker and pour it into the conical flask.
 6- You will obeserve the color of the liquid changes to the redvine color.
 7- Now click on the next button for the further steps of experiment.    
 ---------------step2----------
 8- click on the hard water sample again and pour 100ml of hard water into the conical flask.
 9- click on the hard water pored concial flask so it will pour the tap water inside the column having sodium salt
10- the tap water is passed through the sodium containing column and the water is collected in the second conical flask.
11- now click on the second flask so it will be placed on the table.
12- click on the dropper so it will collect few drops of buffer solution and pour it into the conical flask containg water passed thorugh the column.
13- click on th second dropper so it will take few drops of Eriochrome Black T indictor and pour it into the conical falsk again
14- you will observe the color of the liquid chnged to blue which means the hardness of water is removed.
15- Now click on the next button for the further steps of experiment.
---------------step3-------------------
16- click on the Ethylenediamine tetra acetic acid (EDTA) beaker and fill the 50ml burette  
17- click on the redvine colored conical flask which will place it below the burette
18- click on the knob of the burette so the EDTA will be poured until the color of the liqud turns blue.
hence you will observe the color of both the concial flask are same.

Thankyou!!